= Optimal micro strategies for two opposing units =

Let *A* and *B* denote two opposing units in a real-time strategy game where each unit has 5 fixed properties: _speed_, _range_, _dps_ (damage per shot), and _cooldown_. Each unit also has 2 dynamic properties: _position_ (a vector in R^n^) and _health_, a scalar. We also assume that the initial distance between both units is greater than the range of either unit. That is, |*A*._position_-*B*._position_| > max(*A*._range_,*B*._range_).

Let shots(*X*,*Y*) denote the number of shots it takes for *X* to kill *Y*. Since each shot by *X* reduces *Y*'s _health_ by *X*._dps_, we can define shots(*X*,*Y*) as follows:

shots(*X*,*Y*) = ceil(*Y*._health_/*X*._dps_)

Let timeToKill(*X*,*Y*) denote the time it takes for *X* to kill *Y*, assuming |*X*.position-*Y*.position|<*X*._range_ for the entire time:

timeToKill(*X*,*Y*) = (shots(*X*,*Y*)-1){{{*}}}*X*._cooldown_

*A*._range_ can be less than, equal to, or greater than *B*._range_, and *A*._speed_ can be less than, equal to, or greater than *B*._speed_, so there are 9 possible cases when considering both of them which we will group into the following 4 cases:

  # *A*._speed_ > *B*._speed_ and *A*._range_ > *B*._range_
  # *A*._speed_ > *B*._speed_ and *A*._range_ <= *B*._range_
  # *A*._speed_ = *B*._speed_
  # *A*._speed_ < *B*._speed_

== *A*._speed_ > *B*._speed_ and *A*._range_ > *B*._range_ ==

In this case, *A* can always win regardless of the other unit properties. Since  *A*._speed_ > *B*._speed_, it can control whether |*A*._position_-*B*._position_| increases, decreases, or stays the same at each point in time. Furthermore, since *A*._range_ > *B*._range_, *A* can move toward *B* until *A*.range > |*A*.position-*B*.position| > *B*.range, and then maintain that distance while it attacks *B*. At this distance *B* cannot attack *A*, and since *B* is slower than *A*, it cannot get close enough to attack *A* nor evade *A*, so *A* always wins. This is commonly called "kiting".

== *A*._speed_ > *B*._speed_ and *A*._range_ <= *B*._range_ ==

In this case, *A* can move faster than *B*, but it does not have a greater range. However *A* can still kill *B* if the time it takes for *A* to kill *B* plus the time it takes for *A* to move from a distance of |*A*._position_-*B*._position_| = *B*._range_ to a distance of |*A*._position_-*B*._position_| = *A*._range_ is less than the time it takes for *B* to kill *A*. The time it takes for *A* to move a distance of *B*._range - *A*._range_ is (*B*._range_-*A*._range)/*A*._speed_, however we should assume that *B* will try to maximize the amount of time it can attack *A* without *A* being able to attack *B*, so we use the time (*B*._range_-*A*._range)/(*A*._speed_-*B*._speed). Our condition can then be written as:

timeToKill(*A*,*B*) + (*B*._range_-*A*._range)/(*A*._speed_-*B*._speed) < timeToKill(*B*,*A*)

If this inequality is true, *A* can attack and kill *B*.

If not, *A* may still be able to kill *B*, not in a straight up attack, but by quickly micro'ing in and out of range of *B*. This strategy only makes sense to consider if the following to pre-condition holds: *A*'s cooldown is longer than the time needed to move out of *B*'s attack range and back in. If this precondition is false, then *A* will not have time to micro out of range of *B* and back in before it needs to fire its next shot, and so microing in and out of range will just reduce *A*'s attack rate. This precondition can be stated as the following inequality:

*A*._cooldown_ > 2{{{*}}}(*B*._range_-*A*._range)/(*A*._speed_-*B*._speed)

Assuming this precondition holds, we can say that the number of shots *B* can get off during each time that *A* is in *B*'s range is:

shotsPerMicroRound(*B*,*A*) = ceil((2{{{*}}}(*B*._range_-*A*._range)/(*A*._speed_-*B*._speed))/*B*._cooldown_)

where "MicroRound" is the event of *A* moving into range of *B* to attack *B* and then moving back out.

Similarly, the number of full micro rounds for *B* to kill *A* is:

fullMicroRounds(*B*,*A*) = floor(shots(*B*,*A*) / shotsPerMicroRound(*B*,*A*))

The last micro round is not full and has the following number of remaining shots:

remainingShots(*B*,*A*) = shots(*B*,*A*) % shotsPerMicroRound(*B*,*A*)

From this we can express the time it takes *B* to kill *A*, given that *A* is microing in and out of range:

adjustedTimeToKill(*B*,*A*) = fullMicroRounds(*B*,*A*) {{{*}}} A.cooldown  + remainingShots(*B*,*A*){{{*}}} *B*._cooldown_

From this, our condition becomes:

timeToKill(*A*,*B*) + (*B*._range_-*A*._range)/(*A*._speed_-*B*._speed) < adjustedTimeToKill(*B*,*A*)

If this inequality is true, then *A* can attack and kill *B*.

== *A*._speed_ = *B*._speed_ ==

In this case neither unit can win if they are both rational - the weaker unit will always retreat, and since they can move at the same speed, the stronger unit will never be able to attack. Nonetheless, *A* should try to attack iff *A*._range_ > *B*._range_ or *A*._range_ = *B*._range_ and timeToKill(A,B) < timeToKill(B,A) . If *B*._range_ > *A*._range_, *B* should be trying to attack *A* and *A* should retreat.

== *A*._speed_ < *B*._speed_ ==

If *B* is rational, this case has only 2 outcomes - *B* chooses to attack and kill *A*, or *B* evades *A*. The decision making for *B* proceeds as it did for *A* in the first 2 cases. If *A*._range_ >= *B*._range, then *A* will be able to do damage to *B* so it should try to do as much damage to *B* before it dies.

= Heuristics for m units vs n units =

While micro'ing m units of group *A* vs n units of group *B* is NP-hard, one possible heuristic for approximately solving this would be to have group *A* micro so as to maximize timeToKill{{{'}}}(*B*,*A*) while not increasing timeToKill{{{'}}}(*A*,*B*), where timeToKill{{{'}}}(*X*,*Y*) is a heuristic generalization of timeToKill(*X*,*Y*) that works for two groups of units that are all assumed to be in range of each other.

Computing timeToKill{{{'}}}(*X*,*Y*):

Let *X* be a set of m units that all have the same _speed_, _range_, _dps_, and _cooldown_, but possibly different _health_.

Let *Y* be a set of n units that all have the same _speed_, _range_, _dps_, and _cooldown_, but possibly different _health_.

Let *Y*._health_,,i,, denote the _health_ of unit i in set *Y*.

Then we can say the number of shots for a unit in *X* to kill *Y*,,j,, is :

shots,,G,,(*X*, *Y*,,j,,) = ceil(*Y*._health_,,j,, / *X*._dps_)

From this, the number of shots for a unit in *X* to kill all of *Y* is:

shots,,G,,(*X*, *Y*) = sum(shots,,G,,(*X*, *Y*,,j,,), j=1 to m)

Since *X* has m units that can all attack at once, the time it takes for *X* to kill *Y* is:

timeToKill{{{'}}}(*X*,*Y*) = (ceil(shots,,G,,(*X*, *Y*)/m) - 1) {{{*}}} *X*._cooldown_