#sidebar TableOfContents

Class header file: http://code.google.com/p/bwsal/source/browse/trunk/BWSAL/include/UnitGroupManager.h

Global functions:

  * [#AllUnits AllUnits]
  * [#SelectAll SelectAll]
  * [#SelectAllEnemy SelectAllEnemy]

=== AllUnits ===
UnitGroup AllUnits();

Returns a UnitGroup containing all accessible units.

=== SelectAll ===
UnitGroup SelectAll();

Returns a UnitGroup containing all units owned by our player.

UnitGroup SelectAll(BWAPI::UnitType type);

Returns a UnitGroup containing all units of the given type owned by our player (or owned by neutral, if the unit type is a neutral unit type).

UnitGroup SelectAll(BWAPI::Player{{{*}}} player, BWAPI::UnitType type);

Returns a UnitGroup containing all units of the given type owned by the given player.

=== SelectAllEnemy ===
UnitGroup SelectAllEnemy();

Returns a UnitGroup containing all units owned by the enemy player.

UnitGroup SelectAllEnemy(BWAPI::UnitType type);

Returns a UnitGroup containing all units of the given type owned by the enemy player.

Member functions:

  * [#onUnitShow onUnitShow]
  * [#onUnitHide onUnitHide]
  * [#onUnitMorph onUnitMorph]
  * [#onUnitRenegade onUnitRenegade]

=== onUnitShow ===
void onUnitShow(BWAPI::Unit* unit);

Should be called from AIModule::onUnitShow.

=== onUnitHide ===
void onUnitHide(BWAPI::Unit* unit);

Should be called from AIModule::onUnitHide.

=== onUnitMorph ===
void onUnitMorph(BWAPI::Unit* unit);

Should be called from AIModule::onUnitMorph .

=== onUnitRenegade ===
void onUnitRenegade(BWAPI::Unit* unit);

Should be called from AIModule::onUnitRenegade.