#sidebar TableOfContents

Class header file: http://code.google.com/p/bwsal/source/browse/trunk/BWSAL/include/WorkerManager.h

The worker manager ensures that workers are mining minerals and gas at maximum capacity at each base. Transfers workers to new expansions and balances worker amounts across expansions as needed.

  * [#update update]
  * [#getName getName]
  * [#getShortName getShortName]
  * [#onRemoveUnit onRemoveUnit]
  * [#setWorkersPerGas setWorkersPerGas]
  * [#getMineralRate getMineralRate]
  * [#getGasRate getGasRate]
  * [#enableAutoBuild enableAutoBuild]
  * [#disableAutoBuild disableAutoBuild]
  * [#setAutoBuildPriority setAutoBuildPriority]

== update ==
virtual void update();

Should be called during AIModule::onFrame.

== getName ==
virtual std::string getName() const;

Returns std::string("Worker Manager");

== getShortName ==
virtual std::string getShortName() const;

Returns std::string("Work");

== onRemoveUnit ==
void onRemoveUnit(BWAPI::Unit{{{*}}} unit);

Should be called during AIModule::onUnitDestroy.

== setWorkersPerGas ==
void setWorkersPerGas(int count);

Used to set how many workers should be used per refinery. The default value is 3 and generally this is the optimal number, but some times in the early game you may want to have only 1 worker on gas.

== getMineralRate ==
double getMineralRate() const;

Returns the rate at which the worker manager is gathering minerals, in minerals per frame.

== getGasRate ==
double getGasRate() const;

Returns the rate at which the worker manager is gathering gas, in gas per frame.

== enableAutoBuild ==
void enableAutoBuild();

Enables auto-build, which automatically builds workers when needed to keep all mining bases gathering at maximum capacity.

== disableAutoBuild ==
void disableAutoBuild();

Disables auto-build.

== setAutoBuildPriority ==
void setAutoBuildPriority(int priority);

Sets the auto-build priority. Default priority level is 80.